Radioddity GD77 Quick Start Guide
by Joseph Stephen VK7JS
10 February 2022
To contact Joseph Stephen, email vk7js@faithfulgenerations.com

Please note. Turn on word wrap to read this document in a text editor.
This Guide assumes you are running the forked version of OpenGD77 produced by Joseph Stephen VK7JS and Jan Hegr OK1TE now called AccessibleGD77.

See the bottom of this document for links to the original and forked branches on Github.

To install the CPS software required to communicate with your radio in order to upload Firmware, voice prompts and a code plug, please run the file called:
OpenGD77CPSInstaller.exe
in the root folder of this archive.
To upload firmware, see the file called 
Firmware Upload.txt.
To learn how to create and upload a code plug, see the file called 
Creating and Uploading a Code Plug.txt.
If you would like to know how to create a DMR ID Database and download it to your radio so the radio can announce who just transmitted, see the "Creating and Downloading a DMR ID Database.txt" file in the docs folder.
Plese note: The license and copyright information are set out in the file called license.txt.

Physical Description

Front panel:
Top third speaker grill.
Middle third screen.
Bottom third keypad.

Top edge, left to right:
Power/volume knob, Orange button, Antenna socket (male SMA)

Keypad Description, left to right, top to bottom:
Green/menu (ok), Large square rubber button with 4 directional pressure points for up, left, right and down, Red/cancel.

Unlike the DM1801, the DM1801A does not have a dedicated button for MR/VFO or VFO A/B.

1, 2, 3, *.
4, 5, 6, 0.
7, 8, 9, #.

Left side, top to bottom:
PTT (Push to Talk.)
SK1 (Side Key 1, also called Black button.)
SK2 (Side Key 2, also called Blue Button.)

Right Edge, top to bottom:
Mic cover.

To remove battery:
1. Place thumb in middle of top edge of speaker grill.
2. Place forefinger top middle of back edge (there is a recess).
3. Press forefinger toward thumb.
4. With other hand, slide battery downward (toward bottom of radio). Be careful because belt clip is attached to radio, not battery.

To install the battery, just place it on the back of the radio behind the belt clip and push upward and it wil click in place.

quick Overview.
Once you install the firmware and voice prompts, the first time you turn the radio on it will be set to Voice Prompt mode level 3.

The radio always boots up in the last active mode (usually Channel Mode) (unless Scan on boot is enabled, which I do not recommend you enable).

At this level, the radio will speak with the most verbosity.
You may wish to reduce the verbosity once you are used to the various functions. To  do this:
1. Press Green.
2. Arrow to Sound Options.
3. Press Green to select.
4. Press up arrow several times to Voice Prompt.
5. Press Left Arrow once to choose level 2.
6. Press Green again to confirm.
7. Press and hold Red (cancel) until you exit the menus.
You can adjust the relative voice volume in the event that the default volume of the voice is disproportionately louder than your received signal. The volume can be adjusted from the Sound Options menu using the option after Voice Prompts called Voice Volume. You can set the volume from 10%to 100% of the normal volume.
You can also adjust the voice rate from the "Voice Rate" option in the Sound Options menu. You can choose from ten voice rates starting with the default rate of the installed voice pack file and increasing in rate in increments of 10%.

Phonetic Spell Mode
If you would like the radio to announce alphabetic characters using their phonetic rendering, enable the Phonetic Spel option from the Sound Options menu. When on, all alphabetic characters will be spoken with their phonetic rendering, making it easier to distinguish certain letters.

Note that whenever you go to the menus, the radio will take you to the last top level menu you selected. If you choose it, you will be taken to the last option in that menu you selected.

In general, you select a menu item with Up and Down Arrow, and change its values with Left and Right Arrow.
You go into a submenu with Green and you exit one level with Red.
Press and hold Red to exit from any level back to the main channel or VFO screen as was in use prior to entering the menus.

If you share the radio with a sighted person who may turn off voice prompts, you can always enable them by holding down # while powering on the radio. If they were off, they'll be set to voice prompt level 3. If they were already enabled, the level will not be changed.

To repeat the last voice prompt spoken, press and release SK1.

If you wish to hear a summary of the current channel or VFO settings, press and hold SK1 for more than half a second.

Monitor Mode:
To Open the Squelch temporarily, i.e. turn on monitor mode, press and hold SK2 for more than 3 seconds. When you release it, your squelch level is restored.

Reverse Function:
If you wish to exchange RX and TX, i.e. turn on the Reverse function on a repeater, during reception, press and hold both SK1 and SK2. While the buttons are depressed, the RX and TX frequencies will be reversed. When you release the buttons, the RX and TX frequencies will return to normal operation.

Replay DMR Audio:
You can now replay the last 5 seconds of DMR audio. This works for both TX and RX so one can test the sound of one's audio without using parrot. Press and hold SK2 and press and release SK1 to replay the DMR audio. This feature uses a circular buffer so it always remembers the last approximately 5 seconds of audio regardless of whether it is from a received station or your own last transmission. (Note there is no conflict between this and the Reverse function above because Reverse is only used while receiving a signal, wheras replay is used when not currently receiving a signal, also, reverse is only active while both SK1 and SK2 are pressed.)

To change between Channel and VFO mode, pres the Red button from the channel or VFO screens.
To change between VFO A and VFO B, press and hold the Red button for more than half a second when in VFO mode. (You can also press the orange button twice quickly from VFO mode.)
 Note also that the large square button with a hole in the center, provides arrow navigation, up/left/right/down. Press the respective edge of the button.

The Orange button is used to go to the Channel or VFO Quick Menu.

You can save any menu option to a Quick Key so that you can invoke that function without having to find it in the menus.
To do this:
1. Go to the menu/submenu or quick menu option.
2. Press and hold SK2 and press a digit from 0 to 9.
3. You'll hear a message: Set Quick Key x to y, where x is the number and y is the function name.
4. Press Green to confirm or Red to cancel.
5. Then, from the channel or VFO screen, to invoke that function, simply press and hold SK2 and press the digit.
6. Then when the radio announces the function, press Green to confirm or Red to cancel.
7. to clear a quick key, from the Channel or VFO screen, press and hold SK2 and the digit for more than half a second.
8. The radio will confirm the clear with a melody.
9. You can't assign a 2nd function to an assigned quick key unless you first clear it.

You can now set default repeater offsets for the 2 m and 70 cm bands.
The defaults are 600 kHz for 2 m and 5 mHz for 70 cm.
The VHF offset can be set from 100 to 1000 kHz in steps of 100 kHz.
The UHF offset can be set from 100 to 9900 kHz in steps of 100 kHz.
Change these from the Options menu.
From the VFO screen, in analog fm mode, you can then enter a frequency from the keypad and just hit # to cycle (and force the tx frequency) to the correct setting, i.e. add the appropriate offset, subtract the appropriate offset, or force to be the same (for simplex). The radio will announce plus, minus or none at voice prompt level 2 and higher.
If you wish to set the offset for DMR, (since # in DMR mode allows the entry of TG, PC or contact, simply set the offset in FM mode then toggle to DMR mode using SK2+*.
Note # works in the channel screen too for consistency, however it is advised to set your offset prior to saving a channel to avoid confusion.
 
SK2 Latch.
If you have trouble pressing and holding SK2 while pressing another key, you can enable the SK2 Latch function.
To enable SK2 Latch:
1. Go to the menus with Green.
2. Arrow to Options and hit Green to select.
3. Arrow to SK2 Latch and hit right arrow to select the desired timeout time. A value of 1.5 to 2 seconds will allow you sufficient time to use the radio one handed. The timeout values are from 1 to 10 seconds in increments of half a second.
4. Press Green to confirm.
5. Press and hold Red until you exit the menus.

There is also a PTT Latch feature which works similarly. When enabled, (from the Options Menu,) press PTT and release it and it will stay latched until you press and release it again or until the TX times out. The radio will now emit the same beep as the DMR start/stop beeps to indicate when TX has been enabled or disabled.
Note that for PTT Latch to work, you must define a TOT (Timeout Timer) value either in the Options Menu (which affects all channels and VFO mode), or you can set it on an individual channel via the Channel Details Screen (SK2+Green from Channel or VFO screens). 
I recommend using the global TOT option in the Options Menu to avoid having to set the TOT value on every channel if you intend to use the PTT latch feature.

Other Keypad Functions:
* changes between time slots in DMR mode.
A long hold of * in digital mode resets the timeslot to the channel's default timeslot.
In FM mode it toggles between narrow and wide FM modes, i.e. between 25 kHz and 12.5 kHz.
A long hold of * in analog mode will reset the channel's bandwidth to its default bandwidth.

# in DMR mode allows you to cycle between Talk group entry, private call entry and contact. For the two entry modes, enter the ID using the keypad and hit Green to confirm. 
In contacts mode Up and Down Arrow will select different contacts from the TGList.
From Contacts mode, SK2+# will allow you to enter a different DMR ID into the radio. Confirm with Green for a temporary change, or SK2+Green to make the change permanent. You can also set the DMR ID for the radio from the User Information screen from the Main menu, which is preferrable since then you don't need to remember this convolution of keystrokes.

Note that if you receive a DMR signal on a different talk group to the talkgroup selected for transmit, pressing SK2 will change your current talk group to the received talk group. This is important, otherwise if you attempt to respond to the caller, they would not hear you. Note that if the DMR signal is from a different talk group to your current one, you are alerted with a double beep when the reception begins.

You can have the DMR ID or callsign of the last station received announced automatically after their transmission, or manually request it. Enable the DMR ID option from the Sound Options menu. When DMR ID is off, you can manually request the ID or callsign of the last station by pressing SK1 after the station finishes transmitting. Their ID or callsign is also included in the channel summary on long hold SK1. Long hold SK1 will report the callsign for up to ten seconds after detection after which it is no longer reported as it is most likely no longer relevant.
If the callsign detected comes in on a different talk group to what you have set as your tx talk group, you'll also hear the talk group name after the callsign, to both alert you that their talk group is different, and, in case you couldn't press SK2 in time to set your tx talk group to theirs while they were transmitting, you can manually set the talk group to theirs after the transmission.
 
If you want to transmit your callsign or name rather than your DMR ID, put your callsign or name in the third field of the User Information screen from the main menu. It is the field called "1". Do not fill in both "1" and "2" or your text will be unnecessarily long. Both line 1 and line 2 are transmitted as caller alias data if Caller Alias is enabled in the Options menu. Note however that not all repeaters are compatible with Talker Alias and on such repeaters you may not be able to be heard. If this is the case, disable Talker Alias and reboot your radio. If you do send both lines 1 and 2, the radio will only read up to the first space of the first line for brevity, ideally this would be your callsign or first name.

In Analog mode, Left and Right Arrow control the squelch level for the current channel.
SK2+Left and Right allow you to change the power level for the current channel between 50 MW and 5 W. If you are set to 5w, long hold sk2+right will select the user power level which defaults to about 5.5 w. 

SK2+Orange announces the current battery level.
SK2+Up or Down cycles you through the defined zones (or autozones if enabled).
SK2+* toggles between FM and DMR mode.
SK2+# goes to the Quick contacts list relevant for the current radio mode. Note that this is a cut-down version of the same contacts list you can access via the main menu.
From this quick Contacts menu, Up and Down arrow will select a contact and Green will either dial the DTMF code (for an analog contact), or select the contact if it is a digital contact.

If you choose DTMF or DMR Contact List from the Contacts submenu of the main menu, (rather than from the sk2+# quick menu), the Green button will bring up a submenu for creating, editing, deleting or selecting (dialing) the contact. You can also choose a dialer screen which allows you to enter digits to be dialled and then press Green to dial the entered digits. (This is the DTMF Entry screen).

From the main Contacts menu, for DMR contacts, # will cycle the list between showing group call contacts, private call contacts and all call contacts.
 
Scanning:
Long hold Up Arrow to start scanning the current zone or SK2+long hold up to scan all zones including enabled autozones.
While scanning, if the radio stops on a nuisance channel, you can hit Right arrow to add it to the nuisance list to skip it during that scan only.
Press Red to stop scanning. If you press Red while there is no signal, you will be returned to the last channel you were on prior to invoking the scan. If you press Red while a signal is being received, i.e. the scan is paused, you will be left on the new channel. If you press Green to stop the scan, you'll always be left on the last channel scanned.

VFO Scan Mode:
Scanning in VFO mode works slightly differently to Channel mode in that the first time you press long hold Up Arrow, you enter Scan Mode but do not immediately start scanning. In Scan Mode, you can set the scan range. It defaults to the current frequency, to the current frequency plus 1 MHz.
To enter a new scan range, enter the low and high frequency from the keypad, e.g. 1440000014800000
Note the low frequency must contain 8 digits and you'll hear a beep after the low frequency has been recognized. You can then enter the high frequency, up to the number of digits necessary to specify the frequency. If you do not enter all 16 digits, hit green once you have entered sufficient digits for the high frequency.
   You'll then hear the new range.
Press and hold Up Arrow to start the scan and the radio will say "scan start".
If you press any key, the scan will stop, but you will remain in Scan Mode to enter a new scan range.
To exit Scan Mode and revert to the normal VFO entry screen, press and hold Down Arrow. The radio will say Scan Mode Off.

Channel Details.
If you press SK2+Green from the channel mode screen, you are taken to the Channel Details screen, which is the same screen you reach if you choose Channel Details from the main Menu.
From this screen you can press Up and Down Arrow to move between  fields, and Left and Right Arrow to change most values.

If you wish to edit the channel name, the keypad may be used like a mobile phone keypad. Press a key to cycle between its letters, and then pause to enter the digit. the radio will announce the previewed character when you cycle, and the character inserted when you pause.
You can backspace a character using SK2+Left arrow.

PLEASE NOTE! If you wish to make the changes permanent, you must hit SK2+Green. If you simply hit Green, the changes will be saved only until you change the channel or reboot the radio. SK2+Green will write the changes to the Flash memory.
The Red button can be used to cancel changes and exit the Channel Details screen.

When editing most fields, the following keys/functions are available:
a. Arrowing left and right in the field will move to and speak the character;
b. SK2+Left will backspace and speak the backspaced character;
c. SK2+Right toggles between numeric and alphanumeric text entry in fields which may accept both numbers and letters. This means that when you are editing a DTMF contact, and you start off in numeric mode, where the majority of your entry is numbers, but then you wish to add a letter, you can press SK2+Right to switch to the keypad preview mode for entering alphanumerics. This works like the normal telephone alphanumeric keypad where multiple presses of a key cycles between letters and number and then a delay inserts that character into the field. You can then toggle back to numeric mode using the same key combination, SK2+Right. This works in DTMF fields and normal alphanumeric fields. It does not work in purely numeric fields by design.
Note that when a field gains focus, it always starts off in the most appropriate mode. E.g. the DTMF code field always starts off in DTMF mode where numbers, * and # insert their number or symbol. Name fields always start off in alphanumeric mode where multiple presses of the keys cycle between letters and numbers. Frequency and DMR ID fields are always in numeric mode, where only numbers are valid and you can't toggle the input mode.
d. Long hold Left, home (speak first character in field);
e. SK2+Long hold Left delete to start of field;
f. Long hold Right, end (moves to last character and speaks it if it is not blank);
g. SK2+Long hold Right delete to end of field;
h. Proper character insertion until the field is full at which point characters will be overwritten;
i. Proper alphanumeric preview and speaking for alphanumeric fields;
j. Simple digit input for numeric fields;
k. Simple DTMF support for DTMF fields;
l. SK1 will repeat the content of the edit field. 

Custom Voice Prompts:
You can create up to 99 custom voice prompts to be spoken for, or as part of, contact or channel names.
1. SK1+PTT allows you to record a prompt (up to about 4 seconds).
2. SK2+SK1 will repeat the prompt for verification.
3. To save prompt 1, after recording it with SK1+PTT, hold SK1, and then long hold digit 1. To save prompt 32, press and hold SK1, press and release digit 3, and then press and hold down digit 2 until you get the save mesage.
4. To play a prompt, press SK1, enter the digits or digits, and release SK1. The prompt will either be played when you release SK1 or when you enter the second digit. 
5. Edit a channel or contact name and place a ##digit where you want the prompt to be spoken. E.g. if you want custom prompt 1 to be spoken after the letters of your callsign, then add ##1 after your callsign in the name.
6. If you wish to associate the prompt with a given string, rather than embedding a ##1 through ##32, do the following at the point when you are about to save it:
6.1. Ensure you have already recorded the voice prompt first (from the channel or VFO screen) as PTT cancels other screens. Verify it is correct with SK2+SK1.
6.2. Go to any edit field, e.g. channel details name field.
6.3. Enter the exact text you wish to map to the custom prompt. It can be a word or phrase. Given that the prompt will be associated anywhere this occurs, be careful.
6.4. While that edit has focus, save the custom prompt with long hold SK1+the number. Now, wherever that string appears in the UI, be it in a channel name, contact name, even credits or any other screen, the custom prompt will be spoken in place of that string. Note that the embedding of ##digit will also play the same custom prompt.
Note that if you replace a custom prompt by rerecording it and attempting to save it from the Channel or VFO screens, if it was associated with a string, the string association will remain unless you actually delete the prompt. This makes it easy to associate a string with a prompt and then improve the prompt by rerecording and resaving it if it doesn't quite sound right.
7. To delete a custom prompt, save an empty prompt to the prompt position, e.g. press and release SK1+ptt, then SK1+the number you wish to delete.
8. Note the prompt will follow the voice rate of the rest of the prompts.

Voice Tag/Prompt Edit Mode
1. Enter Edit Mode with SK1+green.
2. In this mode, up/down will adjust the start of the current sound clip by 9 AMBE frames, e.g. to remove noise at the start of the clip, press up or to restore what was there, press down. Hold down to adjust by larger increments (27 AMBE frames).
3. in this mode, left/right will adjust the end of the sound clip (by 9 AMBE frames), e.g. to remove noise at the end, press left or to restore some, press right. Hold down to adjust the end by larger increments (27 AMBE frames).
4. SK1 will replay the adjusted audio.
5. Normally editing is always performed on the current audio buffer, either the sound just received from a DMR station, or just recorded as a custom voice prompt using SK1+PTT. If however you wish to edit a custom voice prompt after it has already been saved, and the audio buffer already overwritten, you can copy it back to the edit buffer using * from edit mode. To do this, first, cause the custom prompt to be played, then go into Edit Mode with SK1+Green and press * to copy the last custom prompt played back to the buffer. Note there is always an advantage to editing the audio immediatley after it is received or recorded rather than after it has already been saved because the immediate audio buffer is always larger and captures more audio. Once the voice tag has been saved, recalling it later for editing will only allow you to edit what was saved, which will generally be shorter than what was originally captured. The replay/edit buffer is 60 AMBE frames, about 5 seconds, whereas a saved voice tag or custom voice prompt can only be 1 kb which is about 37 AMBE frames.
6. # will now autotrim silence/ambient room noise from the start and end of the clip. You can still make further manual adjustments to this autotrim but it gets you reasonably close most of the time.
7. Red will exit edit mode and discard the changes.
8. Green will exit the mode and save the changes. If the buffer has not yet been saved, i.e. you've just edited new audio which has not yet been saved to a custom voice prompt, you will need to decide where to save the audio clip to, e.g. long hold SK1 plus a number, or see below.
9. SK1+* will now save the current clip to the next available slot rather than you having to explicitly tell it which number.
10. Note that while Edit Voice Tag mode is on, no audio from the DMR subsystem will be captured so that you can’t accidentally overwrite what you are currently editing.

DMR voice tag feature. 
You can now associate a voice clip with a DMR ID and then have that voice tag played while reviewing your DMR contact list.
1. After the other station has announced their callsign or name, press SK1+hash. The DMR contact details dialog will pop up with their ID already filled in and the last few seconds of DMR associated with that ID. Further capturing of DMR audio is suspended while this dialog is active, to give you time to decide what you wish to do with the audio, and so your continuing QSO won't overwrite what you are about to save. You can fill in the other station's name and, if you need to edit the voice tag, you can turn on the edit mode (see above) and fix the voice tag before exiting this screen. If you wish to edit the voice tag later, after it has already been saved, see 5 above, and note the limitations. The voice tag will be associated with this contact so deleting the contact will delete the voice tag. These voice tags are not counted toward your custom voice prompts. Currently you can have 256 DMR ID tags.
2. While reviewing the DMR contact list, make sure you have private contacts showing by pressing Hash to toggle to Private calls. If there is a DMR voice tag associated with a contact, it will be played as you arrow through the list. To repeat it, press long hold SK1. Again, if you wish to edit it later, after you've just heard the voice tag, go into edit mode with SK1+green, copy it back to the edit buffer with *, and edit it. When you exit the edit mode with Green, the edited version will be automatically saved. If you wish to discard the edit, exit with Red instead.  

Creating a new channel.
1. Press MR/VFO from the Channel Screen to go to VFO.
2. Enter the receive frequency.
3. If you wish to enter a different transmit frequency, press SK2+Down Arrow to go to the transmit field (SK2+Up Arrow will go back to the Receive field).
4. Note that there is a Bind Transmit and Receive mode accessible from the Orange Quick Menu which sets the distance between the receive and transmit frequency to your current difference. Then, if you change the receive frequency, the transmit frequency will be changed by the same difference. To clarify , if you have set your receive and transmit frequencies such that there is a 600 KHz split, changing the receive frequency will maintain that split and change the transmit frequency accordingly.
5. Use the Channel Details screen (SK2+Green) from the VFO screen to set the tone and other parameters.
6. Finally, use the Orange button to go to the Quick Menu and select Copy VFO to new channel option and press Green to confirm.
7. go back to channel mode with MR/VFO button.
8. You can then use the Channel Details screen (SK2+Green) to edit the name of the channel.
9. Remember, if you wish to make the change permanent, use SK2+Green to save, do not  just press Green.

Deleting a Channel from the radio:
You can now delete a channel from the current zone or from all zones. Choose one of the delete options from the Orange button Quick menu on the Channel Screen.
Delete from zone will delete the current channel from the current zone. Note that you'll get an error beep if you try and delete a channel from the All Channels zone as it is not a true zone. You also can't delete a channel from an AutoZone.
Delete from All Zones will delete the current channel from every zone on the radio , i.e. delete the channel completely from the codeplug.

Reordering Channels in a zone:
Choose "Reorder Channels" from the Quick Menu (orange button). When in reorder mode,  up and down select the channel to move, and left and right move that channel to the previous or next slot in the zone, swapping it with the channel at the previous or next position. Press and hold left or right to move the current channel to the first or last position in the zone. Press red or green keys to exit the reorder mode and return left and right to normal channel screen operation.
Note: this does not work in the All channels zone or any AutoZone as these are not real zones.

Dual Watch.
There is a Dual Watch mode available from both the channel and VFO screens.
In VFO mode, the Dual Watch uses the details of VFO A and VFO B, so you need to set these to the frequencies, modes, and other parameters first before enabling the mode from the Orange button Quick Menu. This option is not a toggle. As soon as you press Green to confirm it after selecting it, it is on. To turn it off, press Red to cancel and go back to channel mode.

The Channel Mode Dual Watch operates in a similar manner, however it allows you to change the channel on the fly.
Firstly, from the channel screen, choose the channel you wish to monitor. 
Then, enable Dual Watch from the Orange button Quick Menu from the Channel Screen.
Finally, you can then arrow to another channel. After a short delay, the Dual Watch will begin monitoring your watch channel and your current channel.
If you cancel with Red or Green , you will be guaranteed to be on the channel you last arrowed to.
If a received signal is detected, transmitting will be on that channel.
While in Channel Dual Watch mode, the long hold of SK1 to read the channel summary will simply say the names of the two channels currently being monitored.
After PTT is released, Dual Watch in channel mode will automatically be re-enabled unles you explicitly cancel it with the Red or Green buttons. (This is not the same in VFO mode, where the dual Watch is canceled when you hit PTT.)

Priority Channel and Priority Watch
You can now set a Priority channel in the Options Menu, or from the Channel Details screen (SK2+Green). If you set a priority channel, pressing and holding the Red button from the channel screen will toggle you between the priority channel and the last selected channel.
If you set or unset the priority channel from the Channel Details Screen, like all changes made on that screen, the Green key only saves changes temporarily (until the radio is rebooted). If you wish to make changes permanent from that screen, press the SK2+Green button to save the changes permanently.

You can also start a Priority Channel scan from the channel Quick Menu (orange button). This is essentially a dual channel watch using the priority channel as the watch channel. 
If you are performing a Priority Channel Scan, the Summary key long hold SK1 will indicate if it is a Priority Channel Scan or standard dual watch.
You can also enable a Priority Channel Scan on boot. Set the Scan On Boot Options Menyu item to Priority Channel Scan.
(The Scan On Boot option has three values in our firmware, Off, on (normal Scan) and Priority Channel Scan).
Note, the priority channel may be in a different zone. If you switch to the priority channel using long hold Red from the current zone when the priority channel is not in the current zone, the summary will not announce the number of the priority channel since it doesn't exist in the current zone, and its number relative to the AllChannels zone is irrelevant to the current zone.

DTMF Latch
When transmitting a DTMF string, if not using the contacts list, this radio has a latch similar to the Kenwood TH-D74a. How it works is as follows:
1. You press PTT and begin dialing the DTMF code.
2. You can let go of PTT and continue dialing the DTMF digits.
3. They'll continue to be transmitted until you leave a long enough pause after the last digit. After about 1.5 seconds, the latch will be released and you'll be back in receive mode.
If you do not like this feature, or wish to change the length of the timeout, you can do so via the DTMF Latch option in the Options Menu.
When manually dialling DTMF tones, LeftArrow=A, UpArrow=B, DownArrow=C, RightArrow=D, 0-9 and * and # are as labelled.

Note that if you need to dial a 1750 Hz tone, press SK2+ptt.

Last Heard screen.
There is now a new submenu accessible from the  Last Heard screen. If you hit the green key when an item is selected in the Last Heard list, you will be presented with a submenu with two items containing the ID of the individual who last spoke, and the talk group on which they were talking. If you choose the ID of the individual, you will invoke a private call with the selected last heard station. If you choose the talk group, it will be as if you hit SK2 in reception mode, i.e. your TX will be set to the Talk Group of the last heard station.

Busy Channel Lockout (BCL)
Set BCL in the Options menu. When on, you will get an error tone if you try and transmit when there is a signal on the current frequency. This should help with doubling for those hams who don't follow the rules.

AutoZones feature.
An AutoZone is a pseudo zone created on the fly based on channelized frequencies calculated via a formula with heuristics applied. I.e. these zones do not take up any memory for the channel data.
An Auto Zones menu has been added to the main menu
Use up and down to select an AutoZone to enable or disable.
Enable or disable an AutoZone using the left and right  arrows.
The following autoZones are available: 
* Mrn (The international VHF Marine band),
* UHF CB (The Australian 80 channel UHF cb band),
* GMRS (General Mobile Radio Service) band,
* FRS (Family Radio Service) band,
* MURS (Multi-use Radio Service) band,
* NOAA ()(National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration) band,
* PMR446 (Personal Mobile Radio) band, and,
* US Rail (US Railway band).
When you enable an AutoZone, it is added to the zones through which you may cycle using  SK2+up/down, or via the Zones menu.
When disabled, the AutoZone will disappear from the zones through which you may cycle.
When an AutoZone is active, the rules for that band are adhered to, for example:
In the Australian UHF cb band, channels 22, 23, 61, 62 and 63 are receive only, and duplex (hash key) may only be enabled on channels 1 through 8 and 41 through 48. The correct repeater offset (750 kHz) is automatically applied when duplex is toggled.
When NOAA or US Rail are active, all channels are receive only.
When GMRS is active, duplex (hash key) may be used on channels 15 through 22 and the correct repeater offset is applied. all other channels only allow simplex operation.
For the marine band,  use # to cycle between simplex and deuplex for supported channels. 
While you can change things like CTCSS, the values cannot be saved permanently since the channels don't really exist. Thus, you may only change these settings temporarily via the Channel Details screen.
You may use long hold Red to jump to that band's priority channel if one is defined (e.g. ch5 for UHF CB, and ch16 for Marine).
Currently, Priority Channel scan does not work in autoZones.
Please note that transmission withihn AutoZones is subject to the Band Limits menu option in the main Options Menu, as well as the restrictions of the specific AutoZone.
If you think you should be able to transmit and can't, check that your Band Limits options Menu value is appropriately set. If set to CPS, make sure you have set the correct band limits in your Ccodeplug.
 It goes without saying that you must hold the relevant license for transmission in any of these bands not governed by a class licence.

Resetting the radio's settings to default.
If you need to reset the radio's settings to their default values, power off the radio, hold sk2, then power on the radio. You'll hear "Update Settings".
You'll then need to reset all of your favorite options.
Occasionally, due to changes in the firmware, updating the firmware may force a settings reset. If this happens, you'll hear the message "Update Settings" and you will need to reset your favorite settings in the various menus.
This does not affect your codeplug.

User Information screen 
A new User Information option has been added to the Main Menu. This allows the user to set their callsign, DMR ID, and two lines of boot screen text. The DMR ID previously being the only field of them all which could be set without the CPS software. This Boot (or Splash screen) text will only be read at voice prompt level 3.

New RSSI screen Audio Indicator for DMR signal reception.
Added continuous tone feedback while SK1 is held down. Works for DMR only.

Note for more detailed information about each of the menu options, please consult the manual, OpenGD77_User_Guide.pdf. It is out of date in some areas, so where there is a conflict, this AccessibleGuideGD77.txt file is more up-to-date.

Links:
The most recent version of the source of the accessible fork of OpenGD77 can be found at:
https://github.com/HegrJan/BlindGD77
The original version can be found at:
https://www.opengd77.com/downloads/releases/R2021052901/sources_and_tools/
The official Radioddity firmware (required to upload the OpenGD77 firmware) can be found at
http://radioddity.s3.amazonaws.com/2021-01-26_GD-77_CPS_%26_Firmware_Changelog_Ham_Version.zip
Ian Spencer's great tutorial in MP3 and PDF format can be found at
http://www.spencerweb.net/Downloads/OpenGD77/opengd77.html

End of guide.